home/meghaborase1/app/localpulse/README.md, before:


# Firebase Studio (LocalPulse)

This is a NextJS starter application, configured to use PostgreSQL as its database.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:
- Node.js (v18 or later recommended)
- npm or yarn
- A running PostgreSQL instance (either local or cloud-hosted)
- A process manager like `pm2` for production.
- NGINX or another reverse proxy for production deployments.

## Environment Variables

Create a `.env.local` file in the root of your project and add the following environment variables.

```env
# Recommended for Production for better performance and security
NODE_ENV=production

# PostgreSQL Connection URL (MANDATORY)
# Format: postgresql://USERNAME:PASSWORD@HOST:PORT/DATABASE
POSTGRES_URL=your_postgresql_connection_string

# Optional: If your PostgreSQL instance requires SSL (common for cloud databases)
POSTGRES_SSL=true

# Secure key for signing user session tokens (JWTs) (MANDATORY FOR PRODUCTION)
# This is crucial for production security.
# You can generate a strong secret with the command: openssl rand -hex 32
JWT_SECRET=your_super_secret_jwt_key_here

# Google Generative AI API Key (if using Genkit features)
GOOGLE_GENAI_API_KEY=your_google_genai_api_key

# Admin Credentials (change these for production)
ADMIN_USERNAME=admin
ADMIN_PASSWORD=password123
```

**Important Notes:**
- **`POSTGRES_URL`**: Ensure special characters in your username/password are URL-encoded.
- **`JWT_SECRET`**: This MUST be set to a secure random string for production.

## Getting Started (Local Development)

1.  **Install Dependencies:**
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

2.  **Set Up Environment Variables:**
    Create the `.env.local` file as described above.

3.  **Run the Development Server:**
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```
---

## Production Deployment Guide

For production, the recommended setup is to run the Next.js app using a process manager like `pm2` and have a reverse proxy like NGINX handle incoming traffic and SSL.

### Step 1: Build the Application
On your server, run the build command:
```bash
npm run build
```

### Step 2: Configure PM2
This project includes an `ecosystem.config.js` file to simplify running the app with `pm2`.

To start the application, use:
```bash
pm2 start ecosystem.config.js
```
This will start the app named `localpulse-app`.

To check logs:
```bash
pm2 logs localpulse-app
```
To reload the app after making changes to `.env.local`:
```bash
pm2 reload localpulse-app --update-env
```

### Step 3: Configure NGINX as a Reverse Proxy
Your application **must** be served over HTTPS for secure login cookies to work correctly. Create an NGINX site configuration for your domain (`localpulse.in`) to proxy requests to your Next.js application (which runs on port 3000 by default).

A sample NGINX configuration snippet:

```nginx
server {
    listen 443 ssl http2;
    listen [::]:443 ssl http2;
    server_name localpulse.in;

    # SSL Certs from Let's Encrypt or your provider
    ssl_certificate /path/to/your/fullchain.pem;
    ssl_certificate_key /path/to/your/privkey.pem;
    # ... other ssl settings

    location / {
        proxy_pass http://localhost:3000;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
        proxy_set_header Connection 'upgrade';
        proxy_set_header Host $host;
        proxy_cache_bypass $http_upgrade;
        
        # CRITICAL LINE FOR SECURE COOKIES
        # This tells Next.js that the original connection was secure (HTTPS).
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto https;
    }
}
```
After saving your configuration, enable it and reload NGINX:
```bash
sudo systemctl reload nginx
```

## Troubleshooting

### Login works, but I'm immediately logged out. Features like "Add Family" or "SOS" are missing.

This is the classic symptom of a misconfigured reverse proxy. The browser is not sending the login cookie back to the app because Next.js doesn't know it's running on HTTPS.

**Solution 1: The NGINX Fix (Highly Recommended)**
- **Verify NGINX Config**: This is the best and most secure solution. Ensure the line `proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto https;` is present in your NGINX configuration file for this site. Reload NGINX after making the change.

**Solution 2: The Application Fallback (Currently Active)**
- The application has been configured via `ecosystem.config.js` to use cookies that work even if NGINX isn't sending the `X-Forwarded-Proto` header. This was done to get your application working immediately. While this fixes the functionality, it is technically less secure than Solution 1. It is recommended to implement the NGINX fix for a fully secure setup.
- **PM2 Restarts**: If you make changes to your `.env.local` file, you must reload `pm2` with the `--update-env` flag for it to see the new variables: `pm2 reload localpulse-app --update-env`.

Commit message:

Check cookie options at creation
Your cookie creation code (likely in l

home/meghaborase1/app/localpulse/README.md, after:


# Firebase Studio (LocalPulse)

This is a NextJS starter application, configured to use PostgreSQL as its database.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:
- Node.js (v18 or later recommended)
- npm or yarn
- A running PostgreSQL instance (either local or cloud-hosted)
- A process manager like `pm2` for production.
- NGINX or another reverse proxy for production deployments.

## Environment Variables

Create a `.env.local` file in the root of your project and add the following environment variables.

```env
# Recommended for Production for better performance and security
NODE_ENV=production

# PostgreSQL Connection URL (MANDATORY)
# Format: postgresql://USERNAME:PASSWORD@HOST:PORT/DATABASE
POSTGRES_URL=your_postgresql_connection_string

# Optional: If your PostgreSQL instance requires SSL (common for cloud databases)
POSTGRES_SSL=true

# Secure key for signing user session tokens (JWTs) (MANDATORY FOR PRODUCTION)
# This is crucial for production security.
# You can generate a strong secret with the command: openssl rand -hex 32
JWT_SECRET=your_super_secret_jwt_key_here

# Google Generative AI API Key (if using Genkit features)
GOOGLE_GENAI_API_KEY=your_google_genai_api_key

# Admin Credentials (change these for production)
ADMIN_USERNAME=admin
ADMIN_PASSWORD=password123
```

**Important Notes:**
- **`POSTGRES_URL`**: Ensure special characters in your username/password are URL-encoded.
- **`JWT_SECRET`**: This MUST be set to a secure random string for production.

## Getting Started (Local Development)

1.  **Install Dependencies:**
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

2.  **Set Up Environment Variables:**
    Create the `.env.local` file as described above.

3.  **Run the Development Server:**
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```
---

## Production Deployment Guide

For production, the recommended setup is to run the Next.js app using a process manager like `pm2` and have a reverse proxy like NGINX handle incoming traffic and SSL.

### Step 1: Build the Application
On your server, run the build command:
```bash
npm run build
```

### Step 2: Configure PM2
This project includes an `ecosystem.config.js` file to simplify running the app with `pm2`.

To start the application, use:
```bash
pm2 start ecosystem.config.js
```
This will start the app named `localpulse-app`.

To check logs:
```bash
pm2 logs localpulse-app
```
To reload the app after making changes to `.env.local`:
```bash
pm2 reload localpulse-app --update-env
```

### Step 3: Configure NGINX as a Reverse Proxy
Your application **must** be served over HTTPS for secure login cookies to work correctly. Create an NGINX site configuration for your domain (`localpulse.in`) to proxy requests to your Next.js application (which runs on port 3000 by default).

A sample NGINX configuration snippet:

```nginx
server {
    listen 443 ssl http2;
    listen [::]:443 ssl http2;
    server_name localpulse.in;

    # SSL Certs from Let's Encrypt or your provider
    ssl_certificate /path/to/your/fullchain.pem;
    ssl_certificate_key /path/to/your/privkey.pem;
    # ... other ssl settings

    location / {
        proxy_pass http://localhost:3000;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
        proxy_set_header Connection 'upgrade';
        proxy_set_header Host $host;
        proxy_cache_bypass $http_upgrade;
        
        # CRITICAL LINE FOR SECURE COOKIES
        # This tells Next.js that the original connection was secure (HTTPS).
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto https;
    }
}
```
After saving your configuration, enable it and reload NGINX:
```bash
sudo systemctl reload nginx
```

## Troubleshooting

### Login works, but I'm immediately logged out. Features like "Add Family" or "SOS" are missing.

This is the classic symptom of a misconfigured reverse proxy. The browser is not sending the login cookie back to the app because Next.js doesn't know it's running on HTTPS. The application code is now built to automatically detect the proxy settings, so the problem is almost certainly in your NGINX configuration.

**The Solution:**
1.  **Verify NGINX Config**: This is the best and most secure solution. Ensure the line `proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto https;` is present in your NGINX configuration file for your site (`/etc/nginx/sites-available/localpulse.in` or similar).
2.  **Reload NGINX**: After making any changes to the NGINX config file, you must reload the service for the changes to take effect: `sudo systemctl reload nginx`.
3.  **Clear Browser Cache**: As a final step, clear your browser's cache and cookies for `localpulse.in` to ensure you are getting a fresh session.
